README.md, before:

# tuple_vector

A specialised container class based on std::vector containing std::pair<K,V> tuples for
*fast* find(K) and lower_bound(K) operations on timeseries data with strictly increasing
keys. It can be used like a normal std::vector (since it is one), with the addition of
some std::map methods: ``find(key)``, ``lower_bound(key)``, ``at(key)``, ``operator[](key)``.

# Use-cases

The typical use-case is to read strictly increasing timeseries data once, e.g. from a
database or data provider api, and then only append to it.
The performance for appending, array operations and iterations is in the same ballpark as
std::vector, while the find() and lower_bound() performance is typically 10x and 5x faster
than std::map, but this also depends somewhat on the type of key being used - ymmv.

# Operation

The key lookup methods piggyback on the properties of strictly increasing timeseries
data by implementing an interpolation search with ~O(log log n) complexity.

# Sample

See the provided sample.cc or perf.cc files for usage examples. To compile the provided
sample programs, you will also need to clone my ``cppbench`` repository.

# Performance plots

These performance plots were generated by first running the sample ``perf`` program to 
collect the runtime performance for various container operations and then calling the
provided ``mkplots.r`` utility (needs R).

## emplace performance comparison between vector, map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/emplace.png "emplace()")

## operator[] performance comparison between vector, map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/array.png "operator[] access")

## iterator performance comparison between vector, map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/iterator.png "iterator access")

## find performance comparison between map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/find.png "find(key)")

## lower_bound performance comparison between map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/lower_bound.png "lower_bound(key)")

Commit message:

added pitfalls; added key functor example

README.md, after:

# tuple_vector

A specialised container class based on std::vector containing std::pair<K,V> tuples for
*fast* find(K) and lower_bound(K) operations on timeseries data with strictly increasing
keys. It can be used like a normal std::vector (since it is one), with the addition of
some std::map methods: ``find(key)``, ``lower_bound(key)``, ``at(key)``, ``operator[](key)``.

# Pitfalls

Please be aware that since this class is derived from std::vector, objects of type tuple_vector can
be passed to any method expecting a std::vector - if this method then calls modifying operations on
the passed object, it will call the std::vector methods instead of the tuple_vector ones, leaving
the internal house keeping ot tuple_vector in shambles.
At some point in the future (when I have more time) I might change the implementation to become a
"has-a" std::vector instead of an "is-a" std::vector.

# Use-cases

The typical use-case is to read strictly increasing timeseries data once, e.g. from a
database or data provider api, and then only append to it.
The performance for appending, array operations and iterations is in the same ballpark as
std::vector, while the find() and lower_bound() performance is typically 10x and 5x faster
than std::map, but this also depends somewhat on the type of key being used - ymmv.

The key part (K) can be anything that can be represented as some form of timestamp. To allow
any form of keys, the user has to define an appropriate key functor that returns a numerical
representation of the point in time being used, simple example for time_t:

    template<> double key<time_t>::operator()(const time_t &x) const { return x; }

# Operation

The key lookup methods piggyback on the properties of strictly increasing timeseries
data by implementing an interpolation search with ~O(log log n) complexity.

# Sample

See the provided sample.cc or perf.cc files for usage examples. To compile the provided
sample programs, you will also need to clone my ``cppbench`` repository.

# Performance plots

These performance plots were generated by first running the sample ``perf`` program to 
collect the runtime performance for various container operations and then calling the
provided ``mkplots.r`` utility (needs R).

## emplace performance comparison between vector, map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/emplace.png "emplace()")

## operator[] performance comparison between vector, map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/array.png "operator[] access")

## iterator performance comparison between vector, map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/iterator.png "iterator access")

## find performance comparison between map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/find.png "find(key)")

## lower_bound performance comparison between map and tuple_vector
![alt text](results/time_t/lower_bound.png "lower_bound(key)")
